All right, good morning, everybody.
My name's Josh Shaffer,
and I will be joined in
a little while by Eliza,
who's going to do some
demos for us today.
And today we're here to talk
about advanced techniques
for use with UI ScrollView.
So if you've seen our
UI ScrollView sessions in
the previous couple of years,
we've talked about a
variety of different things,
from tiling to zooming and
all this kind of stuff.
Today we're going to
focus on four specific,
interesting, advanced techniques for
using UI ScrollView.
So the first technique
will be infinite scrolling.
This is the case where you have
some content and you want to keep
scrolling in one direction or
the other direction forever and
never hit the edge of the content.
Maybe you've got some photos
and you want to wrap through
them and never get to the edge.
So we'll talk about how you can
do that using UI ScrollView.
Second,
we'll talk about stationary views.
Now,
there's a number of different reasons
you might want to use stationary views.
The kind of things we're
talking about here are views
that remain pinned in place.
So you can't just scroll in one
orientation but scroll with the
scrolling content in the other,
sorry, not orientation but
dimension or direction.
So we'll get into that and look at
a couple techniques for doing that.
Third, we're going to talk about
customizing touch handling.
We've talked about this in the past,
so if you saw the ScrollView session two
years ago or have looked at it on iTunes,
you may have seen some talk about using
multi-touch in subviews of UI ScrollView.
But with the introduction of UI Gesture
Recognizer in iOS 3.2 and 4.0,
we've been able to do a lot of things.
This has become much easier
and much more powerful.
So we'll look at a couple
different examples of things
you can do to customize touch
handling in your UI ScrollViews.
And then finally,
we'll talk about redrawing after zooming.
And this is, as a general concept,
is something we've
talked about in the past.
But we're going to look at one specific
technique today that is really useful
when you have small bits of content
that you want to redraw at a higher
resolution after you're done zooming.
So we'll get through to all of
these things over the next hour.
But just to get started,
and make sure that we're all on
the same page in case there's
anyone here who hasn't done
much with UI ScrollView before,
I just want to do a really quick
five-minute review of the basics
of UI ScrollView and how you get
it configured and get started
using scrolling and zooming.
So right off the bat,
if you have some content,
there's only one thing that you
have to do in order to begin
scrolling it with a UI ScrollView.
And that is to set your content offset.
So this just tells the ScrollView how
much content you have and how
much it needs to be able to
scroll in the X and Y dimensions.
So in this case,
we've got our collection of photos,
and we've just defined our content size,
the width and height,
to be the size of the scrollable content.
And with that done,
you can already allow your
users to scroll up and down.
So it's really,
really easy to get started.
From there, you may sometimes,
while you're using your
application -- or rather,
within your application while writing it,
want to be able to find out
programmatically which part of
the content is currently visible.
And that's also really easy to do.
The way we refer to that in
the -- in the Google Docs,
is we refer to it as a "content
size." And that's what we're trying
to do in the world of UI ScrollView,
is as the content offset.
So content offset is the point in your
content that's currently visible at
the top left of the ScrollView's frame.
So in this case, we have no content to
scroll horizontally.
We can only scroll vertically.
So content offset X is always zero.
And our content offset Y,
with the point we're
scrolled to right now,
is the point in that content visible
at the top left of the ScrollView.
So it's just that distance there on
the left from the top of our content.
[Transcript missing]
So we can do that really easily,
actually,
and with a content size that isn't
significantly larger than what's
actually visible at any one time.
So if we call that gray
box there our content size,
you can see that we've only
made it maybe twice the size
of what's visible on screen.
And once we've done that,
then the idea will be that the
user puts their finger down and
scrolls the content to the side.
We swap out the photos,
so the one that went off screen
we remove from our scroll view,
and we bring a new one in.
If that technique's not
real familiar to you,
there's a whole session from
last year about how you can
do paging through photos.
I would recommend looking at
it on iTunes U and downloading
the PhotoScroller sample.
We won't get too much into the specifics
of how you do that tiling bit today.
But the interesting part is that now
we're at the edge of our content again.
So if we did nothing else,
our user now would start
bouncing against the edge,
which is absolutely not what we want.
So we can fix this by doing
just two small things.
The first is we can adjust our
content offset so that we get
centered back in the scrollable area.
So we'll do that,
and that'll shift our content size
back to be centered in that scroll
view so that we can again scroll either
left or right and not hit an edge.
But as you can see, if we just did that,
our content would actually be back off
screen again and not in the right spot.
So once we've adjusted
the content offset,
we also have to then adjust the
frames of our subviews by the exact
same amount so that they end up
back centered in that content area.
Now, I did this in two steps here just
to illustrate that there's two steps
that you have to take to do this.
But if you do them one after the other
in the same turn of your run loop,
it will be completely
transparent to your users.
There will be no indication
that you've done any of this.
It will just happen all
at the same time and,
you know, completely flawlessly.
So again, user puts their finger down,
they scroll to the edge,
we'll recenter our content offset
and shift those subviews back so that
they're centered on screen again.
So that's what we want to do.
Where do we do this,
and how can we implement it?
Well, the basic idea that we're going for
here is to relay out those subviews
every time that the user scrolls.
So a very natural place to implement
this is in the layoutSubviews method.
LayoutSubviews is, as you know,
a method on UIView that you can override.
So in order to do that,
we actually have to
subclass UIScrollView.
You could also do some of the
same stuff by implementing the
scrollViewDidScrollDelegate method.
But we'll get to some other
things later in the session that,
for various reasons,
it's interesting to have
subclassed layoutSubviews.
So we'll use layoutSubviews in this case.
Once we've done that,
there's just two methods that we can call
in order to do those adjustments we saw.
First, we'll use setContentOffset
to shift that content back,
and we'll just shift it over
so we're centered again.
And then we'll use either setFrame
or setCenter to adjust the offsets
of those subviews so that they end up
back where we want them in the center.
So really not very much to it.
It's a very simple concept, really.
And to give us a demo of how that's
all going to work and fit together,
let's have Eliza come
up and show it to us.
[Transcript missing]
I'm also going to set the
scroll indicator style to white,
because I think that's going to show
up best against a dark background,
so that you'll be able to see the
scroll indicators jump to the center.
All right,
so now we need to go down here to
our layout section and write the
method that's going to do this
recentering trick that Josh described.
So I'm going to write a method
called recenterIfNecessary,
and in it, I'm going to compute whether
it's time to recenter.
And I'm going to do that by first finding
out what our current content offset is.
And I also want to calculate what
the content offset that would
be perfectly centered in the
middle of our content would be.
So I'm going to find out
what our content width is.
And then I'm going to compute
what would be that center offset
x that would leave the exact same
amount of content on both sides.
And I use the bounds property of
the scroll view to compute that.
The distance from the center is
the absolute value of where we
are now minus where we want to be.
And if that distance gets big enough,
so if we've scrolled far enough
away from that center point,
we're going to pick ourselves
up and recenter ourselves.
So there's a decision to be made
about how much counts as far
enough away from the center so
that we should do this trick.
We don't want to do it at every frame,
just because that would
be an awful lot of work,
so we want to allow for some
scrolling to happen before we do it.
Again, pretty arbitrarily,
I'm choosing to allow you to get about
a quarter of the content width away
from the center before we'll pick you
up and put you back in the middle.
You could experiment
with different values.
It shouldn't matter too much.
So if we've gotten far
enough away from the center,
we are going to change our
content offset by using the
center offset that we calculated,
but we're going to leave
the y offset the same.
There's my mouse.
Because we're only doing this trick now.
We're only doing this trick
in the horizontal direction,
and we want to leave the
vertical scrolling alone.
You could do this exact same thing
to get infinite scrolling in the
vertical direction by adjusting
your center point relative to the
height of your scroll view as well.
All right, and the last step -- oh,
sorry, one more step.
So Josh mentioned that we need
to change our content offset,
and we also need to move any subviews
of our ScrollView back over so that
they don't appear to change position.
We don't have any content yet,
so I'm just going to write a comment
that when we add some content,
we need to remember to
move it at this point.
And then we're going to call
this "recenterIfNecessary"
method from layout subviews.
Layout subviews is called at
every frame of zooming and
at every frame of scrolling.
So every time that the content
that our ScrollViews bounds change,
we're going to hit this,
which will give us the
opportunity to recenter.
and I will be talking about how to
change the resolution of the image.
All right,
so you just see an empty blue view.
But as I start scrolling,
I hope that the content,
that the scroll indicators are visible.
I hope they are.
So if you look at that bottom one,
as I scroll,
if I get close enough to the edge,
it jumps to the center.
Can everyone see that?
Yeah?
All right, cool.
So it jumps to the center because
it hit that far enough away from
the center thing that we added,
and I can do it in the other direction,
too.
It will jump to the center.
And so, of course, the scroll indicator
gives away the trick,
so we don't actually
want that to be there,
but this is just to illustrate
what's going on with the technique.
So next, let's add some content to this.
I was thinking when I was preparing
this demo about what kind of content
you would want to scroll infinitely,
and I was also trying to figure out
what you could do if you have no
artistic skills in order to add that.
So I made this little -- here,
I'll add this drawer.
So I made this little subclass
of UIView called a BuildingView,
and what it does is it
produces a random building,
which is a different color and with
different style windows and stuff.
And so I figured we could make this
-- we can scroll infinitely down
a street where we'll keep putting
more and more buildings there
to fill the space as you scroll.
So we're going to use that here to
add some content that we're going to
tile as we do this infinite scrolling.
So I'm going to import
that building header.
I'm also going to add a class
continuation to infinite scroll view
subclass so that we can add some --
Ivar's that we're going to need.
So the idea is going to be that
we're going to tile these buildings.
And if you've seen our previous sessions,
you'll see that we've almost always,
it almost always comes down to tiling.
So we're going to keep an array of
buildings that are visible right now.
So we're going to need this.
We're going to add a new
building to a container view
that contains all the buildings.
The reason for doing that rather
than adding them directly as
subviews of the ScrollView is
that later when we add zooming,
it will be convenient to have a super
view that we can return from the
ViewForZoomingInScrollView method.
So let's go ahead and create these here.
Scroll down.
So we're going to create this
array of visible buildings,
and we're going to create
our building container view.
and we'll add it as a
subview of the ScrollView.
I'm using the content size to determine
the size of the building container view,
so it will just be the same size
as the ScrollView's content,
although it won't in fact
be full of buildings.
We're going to tile them so that only
the visible ones appear at a time.
All right, so now in layout subviews,
let's create these buildings.
So the idea is going to be-- oh, sorry,
I forgot one other thing
that I wanted to do.
I want to change this content height.
So instead of 500,
which I picked arbitrarily,
we'll make it the height of
the tallest possible building,
which my little building
view subclass can tell us.
And we also want to get rid of these
scroll indicators while we're at it.
We don't want to see that
horizontal scroll indicator,
because it indicates that we're
jumping back to the center,
which we're trying to hide.
So I'm going to say don't show a
horizontal scroll indicator at all.
Okay, so in LayoutSubviews,
we need to calculate what are the visible
bounds of our ScrollView right now,
so that we can fill that
visible width with buildings.
So we get the bounds of the ScrollView,
and we can then use those to
compute the minimum and maximum
visible X values of the ScrollView.
And at this point,
we can now fill that visible
region with buildings.
And I'm going to take a
bit of a shortcut here,
because we've gone through tiling in
detail in a couple other sessions,
and it's all in the sample code.
So I'm going to make a little helper
method that does the tiling for us.
You can check out how this is
implemented in the sample code.
I'm going to call it from layoutSubviews.
What it does is it takes the
minimum x and the maximum x,
and it makes sure that there are
buildings in that entire area.
It also makes sure that the
buildings that are outside of
that area have been removed,
so that we're not having an
incremental growth in memory usage.
I'm going to paste the actual
work there that gets done.
Don't worry too much about this.
You can see it's not
actually that much code.
All right.
So once we've done that,
and we've got our
buildings tiling the area,
all we need to do is remember to come
back here and move the content by the
amount that we adjusted the content
offset so that it appears to stay still.
So we'll do that by iterating through the
buildings in our visible buildings array.
We'll find each building center.
We'll adjust it by the amount that
our content offset just changed.
And then we'll reset it
as the building center.
And we should be good to go.
So I'm going to go ahead and run this.
So here's some buildings.
And as I scroll, new ones come in.
I can scroll back the other way,
and we see new ones appear that way.
And I can just keep doing
this for as long as I want,
and we never get to the edge.
So indefinitely many infinite buildings.
All right, so that's--
So that's an infinite scroll view,
and I'm gonna turn it back over to Josh.
- All right, thanks Eliza.
So, infinite scroll views.
Next up, we have stationary, header,
footer, and other random views that you
might like to keep in place.
So, what are we trying to do here?
Well,
let's say that we've got some large piece
of content that we wanna zoom in on,
but we wanna have a piece
of a header view up at the
top that remains stationary,
it will not zoom with the content.
So, when the user zooms in on
that large image there,
the header will not zoom in.
As the user scrolls
that image horizontally,
that header will remain pinned in place.
But as the user scrolls vertically,
we want this header to scroll off to make
sure that we have the maximum available
area to actually view that photo.
So we really want that header view
to be part of the scroll view,
because we want it to scroll vertically.
We just want to prevent it from
zooming or scrolling horizontally.
And then when the user zooms back down,
we just want it to slide
back in with that content.
So this is pretty easy to do, too.
Let's take a look at where we
might configure our views in order
to get this kind of behavior.
Because if you've used zooming
in UIScrollView before,
you know that normally you'll just
have one subview of the UIScrollView,
and you always use that as
the view that's zooming.
So it's a little bit unusual
to actually have a second view
in your zooming scroll view.
But it does actually work,
and you can do it.
We just have a couple things
that we have to do to make
sure it works the way we want.
So we'll have this large external
UIScrollView that's going
to take up our full screen.
And then we're going to
add two subviews to it.
The first will be that header view.
And again,
this will not be the view that's zooming,
and it will not be a subview
of the view that's zooming.
It's just going to be a direct
subview of the scroll view.
We'll then add another
UIImageView subview of this scroll view,
which we actually will return from
the ViewForZoomingInScrollViewDelegate
method.
So we now have two direct
subviews of that UIScrollView.
So let's see what would happen if we
just did that and did nothing else and
allowed the user to try and zoom in.
They would put their fingers down,
they'd pinch them apart, and well,
it almost did what we want,
but there's still a couple
things that are wrong.
First of all, that header view actually
shifted off screen,
which is exactly what we
didn't want to have happen.
And it also,
you can't really tell from this,
but believe me when I tell you that
our content size is now incorrect,
and we would not be able to
scroll all the way to the
bottom of our image anymore.
But at least we are partway there in
that the header view did not zoom,
so we've got that going.
So first let's fix the
header positioning.
As we said earlier,
the position of the scroll view,
or the part of the scroll view that's
currently visible is the content offset.
And in this case,
we only care about the content
offset.x because we wanna keep that
header view stationary horizontally.
So in our layoutSubviews method,
now that we already have
our scroll view subclassed,
we can just override that
layoutSubviews and make sure that
our subviews frames origin x always
matches the content offset.x.
Because as we scroll,
the content offset.x is always
the portion of the content visible
at the left of the scroll view.
So if we make our subviews
frame always match that,
it will just appear to
remain stuck in place,
a pin to that left side
of the scroll view.
But now I did mention that
there's this one other problem,
and that's our content size.
So I've highlighted that gray box,
which indicates our content size,
so it's a little easier to see.
And the reason this happens
is that ScrollView zooming,
when you return a view
for zooming in ScrollView,
the ScrollView automatically,
while zooming,
sets its own content size to match
the frame size of that zoom view.
So while you're pinching in,
or while you programmatically zoom in,
at every new content size,
or every new zoom scale, rather,
the ScrollView has adjusted its
own content size to match the new
zoomed size of your zoom view.
But in this case,
we have a bit of extra content that's
not included in that zoom view.
We've got that header on top,
and the ScrollView doesn't
know about that.
So we actually need to include
that extra height ourselves.
And we can do that because
UIScrollView adjusts its own content
size by calling selfSetContentSize.
So in our subclass,
we can override setContentSize and
add in that extra header height that
the ScrollView didn't know about.
So we can just add that additional
height from the top to calculate
the appropriate larger content size,
and then call superSetContentSize
to actually apply that.
And once we've done that,
that will increase the available
content size to just grab the extra
space we were missing from that header.
Now, Eliza's going to come back up
and do another demo for us,
but she's actually going to just
show something slightly different
that you can do with stationary zoom.
So we're going to have Eliza come
back up and show us how to do that.
Hi.
So I decided to add a
stationary view to this.
We don't really have anything
that a header would be useful
for in this little demo app.
So I'm going to add a moon to the app.
And the idea is going to be
that the moon will scroll with
the scroll view vertically,
so you can scroll it offscreen
if you scroll vertically.
But the moon will stay fixed in
position horizontally so that
as you scroll the buildings by,
the moon stays put horizontally.
So we'll use that as an
example of a stationary view.
There we go.
Okay.
So we'll need to add,
we'll need to declare this moon view.
We'll make it an image view.
And I've drawn a little picture of a
moon that I've loaded in as an image.
We can create the moon here
after creating our building
container view just by allocating
a new image view with that image.
And I'm going to insert the moon
view as a subview of the scroll view
directly as a subview of the scroll
view itself rather than the image view.
And I'm going to insert the moon view
as a subview of the scroll view itself
rather than as a subview of the building
container view because we want the moon
to not zoom when the buildings do zoom.
So I'm going to insert it below the
building container view because it seems
like the buildings should pass in front
of the moon if they happen to overlap it.
So all right.
Now we've got this moon.
We just need to determine
what its position should be.
And I've chosen some good
values for its center as insets
relative to the top and right,
right edge.
So I just picked these values by trial
and error because they looked good.
And in layout, when we layout subviews,
what we'll do is after doing the tiling,
we'll make sure to position the moon.
And that way we can make its
X position dependent on what piece of
the scroll view is currently visible.
So the center of the -- the moon's
X center will be relative to the
maximum visible X of the scroll view.
And we're going to put that
in the center of the moon.
And then we're going to put
that in the center of the moon.
And we'll just subtract the
right inset off of that so
that it's slightly on screen.
And the effect of that
will be that as we scroll,
its position will change because
the maximum visible X will change,
and which will sort of paradoxically have
the effect that it will appear not to
be changing because as you're scrolling,
it will actually stay
fixed on the right side.
And then the Y center is going to
be an absolute value that's just
relative to the top of the scroll view,
and that will have the effect
that the moon does scroll
in the vertical direction.
So we'll just set the moon center,
and go ahead and run that.
There it is.
If I scroll vertically,
it scrolls right off.
But as I scroll horizontally,
it stays fixed and the buildings pass
right in front of it as we wanted.
All right, thanks again, Eliza.
So just to keep you all on your toes,
we've got two more back and
forths between slides and demos.
So don't get too bored yet.
The next thing we want to talk about
is customizing touch event handling.
So what we're talking about here is
adding custom multi-touch handlers
to subviews of your UI ScrollView.
So if you've seen the
UI ScrollView sessions before,
as I said earlier,
we talked about how you
could do this using regular
multi-touch-- touches began,
moved, ended, and canceled.
There's a variety of methods on
UI ScrollView that let you control
how those touches get delivered
to subviews of the ScrollView.
But it's all quite actually
fairly complicated.
With the introduction of
UI Gesture Recognizer and iOS 3.2,
this has become much, much easier,
and in fact, much more powerful.
So there's a lot of ways that you can
very easily add custom interactions to
UI ScrollView using gesture recognizers.
So let's look at one of them.
Let's say that we've got
this large amount of content,
and we can scroll around in it.
But we want to add the ability to
swipe in from the left or the right,
or swipe up from the bottom
or down to the bottom.
You've seen this yesterday in the keynote
with the new mail interface in Portrait.
You can swipe in anywhere
in the message content area.
And even though that area is scrollable,
when you do a fast swipe,
you actually bring in the mailbox list.
So we can do the same
thing using UI ScrollView.
And it's actually been made even
easier to do more complicated
interactions in iOS 5,
which we'll see in just a second.
So the idea here normally is when a
touch comes down in a scroll view,
as the user moves that finger around,
the default behavior is going
to be to scroll the content.
But we really want to add the
ability to swipe in from the bottom
without moving the content and
animate some other view into place.
We could then swipe down in that same
area and animate that view back out.
But the actual scroll view
hasn't scrolled at all.
We haven't moved our
scrolling content in any way.
So how would we do that?
Well, it's, as I said,
now actually possible in iOS 5 to even
more greatly customize the interactions
of your gesture recognizers with the
ScrollView's gesture recognizers.
Because UI ScrollView actually
uses UIPanGestureRecognizer and
UIPinchGestureRecognizer to implement
its own panning and zooming.
And you can now add interactions that are
dependent on those gesture recognizers.
So the new properties in iOS
5 are PanGestureRecognizer,
which gives you back the
ScrollView's UIPanGestureRecognizer,
the one it's actually using to
track the touches for scrolling.
And PinchGestureRecognizer,
which gives you the
UIPinchGestureRecognizer that it's
going to be using for zooming.
So with those properties,
we can now set up more complicated
interactions between our own UI gesture
recognizers and the scroll views,
which gives us a lot more power to
customize the way our views will
interact with the scroll view.
So for the example we
were just looking at,
let's take a look at how
we can make use of that.
So first, we'll assume that we're in a
place in our code where we're
actually configuring our UI view.
So a common place where you
would do this kind of logic
is in your view controller's
viewDidLoad or in your load view,
where you're creating and
configuring your views.
So let's say we have access to
our UI scroll view in this place.
I've got a method here
called selfScrollView,
which returns the scroll
view we want to customize.
Then we just want to create
our new gesture recognizer.
So we'll allocate and init a
new UI swipe gesture recognizer
using initWithTargetAction.
And we're going to try and create
that swipe up recognizer that
allows us to bring in an extra
view from the bottom of the screen.
So as you know,
with UI swipe gesture recognizer,
we just have to set its direct
view and set its direction.
So we'll pick
UISwipeGestureRecognizer direction up,
which gives us that swipe up.
And then we just add
it to our UIScrollView.
Now, this would almost be
everything we have to do,
but if you tried it,
you'd actually find out
that it didn't work.
And the reason for that is because
UIPanGestureRecognizer actually
requires less movement to recognize
a pan than UISwipeGestureRecognizer
requires to recognize a swipe.
So you have to move your
finger farther to recognize a
swipe than to recognize a pan.
But the problem is we have both a
swipe and a pan on this scroll view,
so the pan will always recognize
first and will always win.
So if we just put this swipe
gesture recognizer on here,
it would actually have no effect.
But with one extra line of code,
we can fix that,
thanks to these new properties in
iOS 5 that give us access to the
scroll view's gesture recognizers.
So we can call
scrollView.PanGestureRecognizer,
which will give us back that pan gesture
recognizer the scroll view will be using.
And we can just tell it that it should
require our swipe gesture recognizer
to fail before it's allowed to succeed.
And with that one line of code,
even though our pan would normally
be trying to recognize earlier,
it's going to wait until after
it's sure that the user isn't
swiping before it begins to pan,
which will cause your scroll
view to not pan until it's
sure that there's no swipe.
So that's the exact behavior
that we're looking for in this
little sample we were looking at.
Now, of course,
there's one small problem with this,
which is that we've now created this
large area over the entire scroll view,
which recognizes swipes up.
Of course, the problem with that is that
now we've actually interfered
with scrolling behavior in a
large part of this scroll view.
We probably don't want to require
this delay every time the user's
moving their finger up before
we allow scrolling to begin,
especially not if it's really
far away from the edge we're
trying to swipe in from.
So we really want to just target
the area that the swipe is
active in to that bottom area
of the scroll view down there.
And we can do that with just one small
modification to what we already created.
And we'll just use the gesture recognizer
should receive touch delegate method to
limit the area that the swipe gesture
recognizer will receive touches from.
So we'll get our scroll view again
because we need to figure out which
part of the scroll view is visible so we
know which area to allow touches from.
We'll get the scroll view's bounds,
which is the visible
part of the scroll view,
and then we'll get the
touch's location in this area,
which is the visible
part of the scroll view.
So we'll just do a little bit of
modification in the scroll view so that
we can compare it to the visible bounds
and just make sure we limit it to
the bottom part of the visible bounds.
Then it's just a really simple if
statement to check to see if our touch
point Y is within that bottom portion.
In this case, I've said 75 points from
the bottom of the screen,
but, you know,
you might pick something different
depending on your situation.
And if it is in that -- if
it's not in that bottom area,
we're going to return no to say that
our swipe gesture recognizer should
not receive touches in that area.
It should be in the upper, you know,
two-thirds, three-quarters of the screen.
Otherwise, we'll return yes,
which will allow our swipe to be
recognized when touches begin in
the bottom portion of the screen.
So again,
just to continue to emphasize that
there's a variety of different
ways that you can use these
techniques to do different things,
Eliza's going to come back and show
us how we can do something else using
gesture recognizers in UI scroll views.
All right, so I'm going to add a gesture
recognizer that's going to allow
us to press down on the moon,
pick it up,
and move it to another location.
So this is going to be-- it
actually is going to be surprisingly
easy with UI gesture recognizer.
If any of you were here two years ago
and saw our ScrollView session then,
you may recall that we did a bunch
of touch handling with dragging
views around in a ScrollView.
But we had to do an enormous amount
of work to make it so that the
ScrollView would interpret those touches
as intended to move one of the subviews,
rather than as intended
to pan the ScrollView.
With gesture recognizers,
it becomes incredibly easy.
We're just going to create a
long press gesture recognizer,
which will recognize when
you hold your finger still.
And because holding your finger
still on the ScrollView doesn't
even compete with panning,
there isn't even going to be any need
to set up an interaction explicitly
between the ScrollView's pan gesture
recognizer and our press recognizer.
It will just happen automatically.
The correct touches will go to
the long press gesture recognizer.
It will recognize,
and then it can be used to track movement
of the view that we've picked up.
So here in my initWithCoder method,
I'm going to create a long
press gesture recognizer.
Whoa, that wrapped in a surprising way.
Let's just get that visible.
And we're going to use
ourself as the target,
and we'll write this.
write this handleMoonPress
method in just a minute.
I'm going to add that gesture
recognizer to the moon view.
There's two more things I have
to do which are slightly
irritating to get this to work.
One of them is it's all well
and good to add a gesture
recognizer to this moon view,
but if the moon view
isn't accepting touches,
then the gesture recognizer
will never see any touches.
And in this case,
since the moon view is a UI image view,
which is the only subclass of
UI view that by default has
user interaction disabled,
we need to make sure to turn
user interaction on for the moon
view or else we're not going
to see any of these presses.
So we set user interaction
enabled on the moon view.
The other problem is that the moon view
is behind our building container view,
and the building container view takes up
the entire content of the scroll view.
And it does have user interaction enabled
by default because it's a regular view.
So we're going to have to
make sure that we're not going
to see any of these presses.
So we set user interaction
enabled on the moon view.
The other problem is that the moon view
is behind our building container view,
and the building container view takes up
the entire content of the scroll view.
UI view.
It's going to block all the touches
from getting to our moon view.
We can fix that in a
bunch of different ways.
The simplest one is just to
turn user interaction off on
the building container view.
So we'll do that so that
the moon can get touches.
All right.
So now that we've done those things,
we can go ahead and implement
this handle moon press method.
And the idea here is going to
be we're going to find out what
state the recognizer is in,
and we're going to do different things
depending on which state it's in.
So this is going to be a
giant switch statement.
Oops, sorry.
Get that all on screen.
Okay, so we care about three or
four different states that the
gesture recognizer might be in.
We care when it begins.
That's after you've pressed for
long enough that the gesture you're
doing now counts as a long press.
We care if it changes.
It changes when,
after recognizing you move your finger,
and at that point we're going to want
to change the location of the moon view.
And we care when the
gesture ends or is canceled,
because we want to, at that point,
drop the moon view and leave
it in its new position.
So, as a springboard engineer,
I decided to make the moon view look like
it gets picked up in the same way that we
make an icon look like it gets picked up.
And that way is, we do three things.
We pull the icon to the front so that
as it moves it passes over all of the
other views that are on the screen.
And we change the transform on an icon.
We make it slightly bigger
so that it kind of looks like
it came towards the moon.
And then we also change its transparency
to make it slightly transparent so it
has this kind of grabbed appearance.
So we'll do the same
exact thing to the moon.
Pull it to the front of our sub view,
so it's now going to pass
in front of the buildings.
And with a little animation,
we'll set its transform
to be slightly larger,
a scale transform that just
makes it grow a little,
and we'll reduce its alpha slightly.
So now the moon will look grabbed.
When the gesture changes because
you've moved your finger,
we're going to just reposition the moon.
So we can do that by setting its
center to the new location of
your touch in the scroll view.
And finally, when the gesture ends,
we'll undo the things that we did
when it began with an animation.
With the same duration animation,
we'll set its transform back to identity,
set its alpha back to 1,
and when that finishes,
we'll send the moon view back to the
back of our subviews so that buildings
once again pass in front of it.
Alright, so with that in place,
we can go ahead and try this out.
All right, so here's the moon.
I'm going to grab it.
It zooms up like we wanted.
And then I start moving it.
And I don't know if you noticed,
but there's a bit of a glitch here.
As I grab it and as
soon as I start moving,
it jumps up.
So we're going to want to fix that.
There's another really big problem,
which is that if I pull the
moon over here and let go,
it jumps right back to where it started.
So let's go back to the code,
and I'll try to explain why
both of those things went wrong.
So the first problem is that jump.
And the culprit here is that
when the gesture changes,
we adjust the moon's center point to
be the new location in the ScrollView.
But you might not have grabbed
the moon from its center point.
You might have grabbed it from the edge.
And so when we start,
we immediately set its center to
be the location of your finger,
which causes the moon to jump from the
point of it being under your finger to
the center of it being under your finger,
which has that kind of unpleasant effect.
So there's a really easy way to fix that.
So the first thing we want
to do is to add an IVAR,
which is to remember when
the touch comes down,
we want to remember how far away the
touch was from the center of the moon.
To remember the touch offset from center,
and then when the touch starts
in our gesture recognizer began,
we can just record what that offset is.
It's the center of the moon
minus the location in view for
each of the X and Y components.
And then finally,
when we set the moon center,
we don't want to just blindly
set it to the current location.
We want to set it to the
location offset by that amount.
All right,
so that will fix that jumping problem.
The other problem was that
when I dropped the moon,
it jumped right back to the upper right
corner where we had initially placed it.
And the reason that that's happening
is that in layout subviews,
we're telling the moon
to be located there.
And it turns out that layout subviews
gets called for a whole lot of reasons.
And so we're hitting our layout subviews,
and that's as soon as I drop the moon,
and it's pulling it back up
to the upper right corner.
So we can fix that by making
sure that in layout subviews,
instead of setting the
moon to a fixed position,
we remember its current
position and we set it to that.
So instead of using these pound
defines to place the moon,
I'm going to add two new IVARs,
a top inset and a right inset.
In init, I'll set their values to be the
same values we were using before.
So the moon will start off
in the upper right corner.
The end,
the touch end part of our gesture
recognizer code will adjust
and Ivar,
will make the right inset dependent on
the current bounds of the scroll view,
so that we still keep it relative to the
current visible area of the scroll view.
And finally, in LayoutSubviews,
we can use those new variables
instead of using the pound defines.
So I'll go ahead and run.
That and these problems
ought to be fixed now.
So no more jumping.
I grab it and it nicely
starts moving smoothly.
And if I drop it over there,
it stays there and I can
continue scrolling.
So that's gesture
recognizers with ScrollViews.
All right, thanks one more time, Eliza.
Okay, our last section now is adding
zooming into our UI ScrollView.
And the specific thing that we want to
talk about now is once you've zoomed in,
and I'm sure you've seen this
if you've used zooming in
your ScrollViews yourself,
your content starts to get blurry,
and you really want to redraw it at a
higher resolution so it looks really
crisp and nice at the higher zoom scale.
So, you know,
that looks basically like the
user puts their finger down,
zooms in on your ScrollView,
and you can see that that content that
we just zoomed in and made really nice
is actually pixelated and blurry now,
or hopefully you can see on there.
What we'd really like to do is redraw
that and be much more crisp and high
resolution at this higher zoom scale.
So as I mentioned earlier,
we're not going to talk specifically
about how to do that on the
main part of your content today.
We have two previous sessions
that you can see on iTunes,
where we've talked about using tiling,
using CATiledLayer,
and just using your own custom tiling
with UIViews that are from previous
sessions of WWDC in previous years.
And there's actually sample code from
both of those sessions that's still
available on developer.apple.com.
One of them is the ScrollView Suite,
and the other one is the
PhotoScroller sample.
So if you want to see how to do
this for your main content area,
I would go check those things out.
They're great resources for that.
What we want to talk about today is
smaller pieces of content that are
maybe incidental to your main image.
In this case,
we have this extra label at the bottom,
and we have the exact same
problem with the label.
When we zoom in on that,
you can see that our text
has gotten very pixelated,
and it's blurry.
It just doesn't look very nice.
We'd really like to redraw it and
have it be really crisp and higher
resolution once we've zoomed in.
So there's a really nice little trick
that you can use to redraw this content,
as long as you're keeping
it to fairly small content.
I would strongly encourage you to
not use this for anything that's very
much larger than a part of the screen
when you're zoomed all the way in.
If you're doing something that's
maybe 20 times the size of the screen,
not only is it a bad idea,
but your app will probably
run out of memory and crash.
So keep it to small pieces of content.
But in that case where you can use
it for small pieces of content,
it's really convenient.
So the place where we would want to
do this is in ScrollViewDidEndZooming
with View at Scale,
because we don't want to try and
redraw our content while we're zooming.
Redrawing content is a
very expensive operation,
so we only want to do it when
the user is actually done zooming
and has lifted their fingers,
and we know the new scale we're at.
So ScrollViewDidEndZooming
with View at Scale will tell
us exactly when that happens,
and conveniently also tells us the
scale that we've stopped zooming at,
so we know what scale to
redraw our content at.
So we can actually fix this
problem with just one line of code,
again provided we have a fairly small
amount of content we're trying to redraw.
And that line of code would just be
the setContentScaleFactor method,
passing in the scale that
we told that we were at.
Now,
the content scale factor of a view is
basically just a multiplier applied
to the bound size of your view,
used to determine how big the
backing store should be for actually
backing your draw rect on that view.
So if you have a 100x100 view
and a content scale factor of 1,
your backing store is 100x100 pixels.
If you had that same 100x100 view
with a content scale factor of 2,
the backing store that you're
actually drawing and filling
with pixels is 200x200 pixels.
So you just always multiply the bound
size times the content scale factor,
which will tell you how many pixels will
be allocated to fill your content with.
This is actually exactly how retina
display devices create content.
So you can create higher resolution
backing stores without you having
to change any of your drawing codes,
so that you can deploy the same
application to both iPhone 3GS and
iPhone 4 without having to write
separate code in your draw rect.
And on iPhone 4,
everything just looks crisper.
That's because all your views
get a content scale factor
of 2 set on them by default.
Now, of course,
because they have this extra
scale factor by default,
we actually need to take that
into account when setting
our content scale factor,
in this case as well.
Because if we didn't,
we would lose that initial 2x scale on
high resolution retina display devices.
So we want to actually
do one last thing here,
which is also multiply in
that screen scale factor.
So we just get our UI ScrollViews window,
get that window screen,
and get that screen scale,
and then multiply that in before
we set our content scale factor.
This makes sure that on those high
resolution retina display devices,
we're rendering at the correct
resolution and don't still
end up with some pixelation,
even when we thought we
were fixing the problem.
So that's really all there is to it.
And to give us a last demo of how we
can use that in our Buildings app,
Eliza will come back.
Hi one last time.
Switch over.
Okay, so let's add zooming to this.
It's going to be a bit of a trick to
get the zooming working with the tiling,
so I'm just going to
show you how that works.
So the first thing we need to do
is implement the view for zooming
in ScrollView delegate method.
So we need our ScrollView to
have a delegate.
Because all of my logic here is in
this infinite ScrollView subclass,
I'm just going to make
it be its own delegate.
So in the header, oops.
I'm going to indicate that
this class implements the
UI ScrollView delegate protocol.
And then switching back to the
implementation file in init,
I'm going to set myself as my delegate,
and I'm going to set the minimum and
maximum zoom scale properties to some
values that will allow for zooming.
I'm actually picking a pretty
large maximum zoom scale so that
we'll really see the pixelation
of the buildings as we zoom in,
and then we can see it crisp up.
Eight times is maybe a little
more than you'd really need.
All right, so now that we've done that,
we just need to implement the
UI ScrollView delegate protocol.
And in particular,
we need the single method view
for zooming in ScrollView,
and we're going to return our
building container view to cause
that view to be the one that
gets the transform applied to it.
So we can run this as is.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so we've got some buildings.
Let me find a nice
tall one to zoom in on.
So here we'll take this purple one
with circle-- oops-- and we'll zoom in.
And as you can see, as I zoom in,
it gets really pixelated.
And when I drop it,
it stays really pixelated.
I hope it's visible that that got
incredibly blurry as I finished zooming.
So we can use the technique that
Josh just described to really easily
change the content scale factor of
these buildings when the zooming ends.
And that will cause them to
be redrawn with a much larger
backing store allocated.
And the reason that this works is that
most drawing that you would be doing
in your draw rect is vector-based.
And so when a larger backing
store is allocated for it,
that very same drawing code
that I don't have to adjust
at all will simply draw crisp,
larger shapes.
And this works for text as well,
as Josh mentioned.
So I'm going to implement another
ScrollViewDelegate method.
And I'm going to use the same
method to take advantage of this.
ScrollView did end zooming
with view at scale.
And in that method,
I'll calculate the scale
factor that we want,
which is my Windows screen scale times
the new scale that we just landed at.
And I'm just going to iterate
through all my buildings in the
visible buildings array and just
set each building's content scale
factor to be that new value.
And you might think that a shortcut
here would be to set the content scale
factor on the building container view,
since that contains all the buildings.
But that would not work,
because we need the drawing code to be
rerun at the higher content scale factor.
And the building views themselves
are what's doing the drawing.
Setting the content scale factor on the
container would have no effect at all.
So there's one-- well,
let's see how that works.
I'll show you one further
thing we need to do.
So as I zoom in on this building,
it gets really pixelated.
But then when I let go,
it crisps up with no further work than
just that one content scale factor trick.
So the one problem here
is that as I finish,
oops.
So if I zoom in,
we get this nice crisping up effect.
But then as I continue to scroll
and new buildings come in,
the new buildings are really pixelated.
And that's because we're not
adjusting the content scale factor
of buildings that weren't already on
screen when we finished the zooming.
So we need to add one further thing,
which is when we add a new building,
which is down here in
my secret tiling code,
I have this method that's the
funnel point for adding a building.
So we also want to add those same
lines of code to that method so that
every time a building is created,
it's created with the appropriate
content scale factor to cause it
to draw at the right resolution.
And so that will allow us
to really scroll up and have
nicely zoomed in buildings.
So I'll start by zooming in.
Nice, crisp drawing.
And then as I continue to scroll,
the new buildings that
come in are crisp as well.
So that's the redrawing after zooming.
All right, so the one thing that Eliza
left out of that is that those
buildings are actually pretty large,
right?
Some of them took up
almost the entire screen,
and she zoomed them in eight times.
So if you had a view that was
taking up most of the screen and
you zoomed it in almost eight times,
some of those buildings were taking up
upwards of eight megabytes of RAM just
to draw that backing story for that.
So, probably don't want to do it
with really big buildings.
You would only be able to have a few
before you'd all of a sudden be out of
memory and couldn't do anything else.
So it's really good for
small stuff like text labels,
not great for really big
things like buildings.
So there's more information available.
Bill Dudney is our
Application Frameworks Evangelist.
Of course, the ScrollView Programming
Guide for iOS is available online,
and the dev forums are a great resource.
There's a TableView Changes, Tips,
and Tricks session later this week.
If I could read that.
read that.
Knob Hill, Thursday at 2 o'clock.
Thanks.